
# 50 Quick Tips to Get Started

{'title': '50 Quick Tips to Get Started', 'content': "Learn how to be the king\nof the server, raid like a champion, and build the compound of your dreams with\nthese tips, and remember, stay rusty!\nTools First, Weapons Later\nIn the first few minutes of spawning into a server, you're faced with a\nchoice-- tools, or weapons? Since the majority of your success in the game\ncomes with building bases, killing animals, and mining nodes, be sure to make\ntools a priority. Tools like the Stone Hatchet, which takes 200 wood and 100\nstone to create, or around ten hits to a node and twenty to a tree, can speed\nup your progress on getting a base and tools down exponentially.\nKeep Your Bow at Your Side\nThe bow, which is arguably the most important early-game weapon, is\ninexpensive-- you can craft it with 200 wood and 50 cloth, which is fairly easy\nto craft. It uses arrows, which can be crafted from 25 wood and 10 stone. If\nyou are one of the first people to get a bow, you have a definite advantage\nover your spear-armed adversaries.\nImportant Components\nComponents, which are a staple of the game, are used to make everything\nfrom armor to tools to decorative elements for your base! You can find them in\ncrates, at monuments, and in barrels along the road. The most useful items that\nyou can find are springs, gears, and rifle bodies, which you can use to make\nguns!\nKeep Your Friends Close, and\nMonuments Closer\nBeing close to monuments are important for farming components and using\nthe recycle at the monuments to get scrap (which you can use to research new\nitems.) But be warned, having a base close to a monument means that more people\nwill be out and about near your home, which can make it hard to farm in peace!\nBe sure to weigh the risks and rewards of basing near a monument before placing\nyour main base.\nFootsteps Matter\nLike in other survival games (and other games in general,) you can\noften hear enemies before you see them. Keep an ear out for animals, other\nplayers, and on some modded servers, zombies-- knowing when they are coming can\nmake a world of difference in your rust experience! Different animals have\ndifferent footsteps, which are even distinct from other players. These distinctions\nmean that you have the edge on the other players on the server!\nEarly Game Low-Grade\nEarly game, low-grade is super important-- you need it to power boats,\ncreate furnaces, and power lamps and lanterns, if you plan on doing anything at\nnight. You can get low-grade from animal fat and cloth, both of which you can\nfarm from animals. Farming animals is fairly easy if you have a ranged weapon,\nlike a bow! Low grade can also be found in mining helmets outside of mines and\nin red barrels found along the road and at monuments.\nUpgrade!\nKeep raiders out and your friends safely inside with an upgraded base.\nMaterials like stone, which you can reinforce with stone, sheet metal, which\nrequires metal fragments, and armoured, which you can get with metal frags and\nhigh-quality metal are all harder to raid than wood or twig are. Although these\ncan be expensive in the early stages of a wipe, they are worth it in the long\nrun, as they offer more protection of you and your loot!\nWatch Rust Build Videos\nLooking to build the compound of your dreams? YouTube content creators\npore tirelessly over their builds, which are constantly updated as new updates\nfor the game come out! A new, crafty base build can be the difference between\nan easily raided base and a compound that is virtually unraidable!\n \nTry Battlefield Servers\nWant to learn the best way to get better with weapons, without losing\nthem? Try Battlefield servers! You often spawn (and re-spawn as necessary) with\na semi-automatic rifle, AK-47, and Bolt-Action rifle, which are all essential\nto learn to succeed at the game! Being able to use these weapons effectively\ncan be a huge factor in your success from wipe to wipe.\nCombat Tag with Your Friends\nWant to 1 v 1 one of your friends to prove that you are better? Try\ngetting into a combat tag server! You can battle it out in single arenas, or\ncompete on teams against other players. If you want to see more PvP in your\nRust experience, you should definitely check out combat tag servers!\nOrganize Inventory\nKeeping your tools, food, and ammo on your hotbar means that you can\nsee them at all times, and easily switch to your gun or hatchet as needed.\nKnowing how much ammo you have on you is very important, especially if you are\naway from your base for a long period of time. Running out of ammo in the\nmiddle of battle can be fatal!\nHidden Sashes\nHiding important guns, explosives, or similar loot? Make a stash!\nStashes can be made from ten cloth, and can be hidden underground. To find a\nstash after you've hidden it, look at the ground around where youve placed it.\nTo help your remember exactly where you put your stash, take a screenshot of\nthe location! You'll have a perfect record of where you hid it!\nBlueprints First, Components\nLater\nIf you've just started on a server, you'll need blueprints-- which can\nbe found using research table and scrap, which you can find by recycling\ncomponents. Blueprints are essential for creating tools and weapons-- without\nthe blueprint for a gun, you can't make it using the resources that you have!\nIn later wipes, or later in the wipe, you can keep components, but initially,\nprioritize blueprints.\nDon't Trust ANYONE\nThere's a reason that the Rust community has such a big reputation, and\nthe reason is this-- in Rust, you should assume that everyone is out to get\nyou-- because most of the time, they are. Whether you've just spawned on the\nbeach, are out farming, or have everything you could ever need, look out for\nother players, and be sure to run or shoot at the hint of danger.\nSilent Raid\nWant to raid without the big, attention-drawing booms? Try a\nsemi-automatic rifle, explosive ammunition, and a silencer. This combination,\nknown as a silent raid, allows you to gain access and take over other bases\nquietly and more efficiently, which is great for mid- or late-game players who\naren't interested in the PvP aspect of the game. Since one sheet metal door\nrequires 65 shots with explosive ammunition, bring a whole stack or two along\nper raid in case things go wrong!\nSatchel Raiding\nIf you're really into booms, but don't have the resources for C4\nexplosives, try satchel raiding! Four satchels are required to blow through a\nsheet metal door, and more if satchels turn out to be duds (which happens at\nrandom! The chance of one turning out to be a dud is currently unknown.)\nRevolvers\nRevolvers are the perfect early to mid-game weapon. They are\ninexpensive, easy to use, and scarily accurate. A few well placed revolver\nshots can get you new, better gear off of an unsuspecting player. They take\nbasic pistol ammo, and are perfect in the early game! \nBiome-Based Bases\nWant to have a base that is left alone? Build in the snow! Deserts are\ngreat for nodes, which are essential to the game, and forests are full of\ntrees, cloth, and mushrooms. Decide what you want out of your base, and run\nwith it! They do come with risks, though-- you need more cloth for clothing in\nthe snow, deserts can get hot during the day, and forests are full of hiding\nplaces for your enemies to hold against you. \nIslands and Sandbars\nWant to use the boats that Facepunch recently added to the game? Try\nbuilding on an island or sandbar! Although these builds can be hard to farm\nfor, they are easy to defend and maintain. Component farming is easy, too, with\nthe floats and scuba-diving sites present in the game. \nPlay with Friends\nRust is best played with friends! Rust is an intense game, and one that\nrequires lots of time farming, playing, and building. Having friends to play\nwith makes the game easier and more fun, and allows you to get closer to your\nhomies!\nSolo Only Servers\nDon’t feel like playing with your friends on this one? Try a solo-only server!\nIf you are just starting out and trying to learn the game, solo-only servers\nare great-- you get single players out to raid or fight you, instead of whole\ngroups of people. Solo-only servers are also a great way to make friends and to\nbuild your community, if you’d love to play with friends later on!\nBolt-Action Rifle for Base\nDefense\nA bolt-action rifle, or bolty as it is colloquially known, is easy to\ndefend your base with if you are under attack. It is scarily accurate, and with\na 4x scope, which you can make with high-quality metal, you can snipe enemies\nfrom over 100 meters away! It can generally be found in airdrops, made, or bought\nfrom other players, and is not a common item. However, the combined punch of\ndamage and range on this weapon makes it worth it!\nDon't Hoard Weapons\nScared of losing your weapons? Don’t be. It is better to have fought\nand lost than have never fought at all, and weapons can fairly easily be\nremade! Going out to fight with your weapons is a great way to get experience\nin the game, learn the mechanics of each gun, and build up your confidence in\nyour abilities! \nCollect Cards\nThe puzzles at the outpost have some tasty loot, and the keycards for\nthem are fairly easy to find! If you’ve played Skyrim (which you should, if you\nhaven’t,) you’ll easily understand the mechanics of the puzzles, which combine\ntiered keycards with fuse boxes to open doors. Behind the third, best tier of\ndoors, you’ll find everything you could ever need-- guns, rad suits for\nprotection at the monuments, components, and in some cases, armour and\nmedicine! \nCollect Wood\nWood is essential! You'll need wood to build a base, craft simple\nweapons and once you reach higher tiers of equipment, you'll need wood to cook\nsulfur, metal fragments and high-quality metal. Wood will always be used, whether\nyou're building a wood two by two or you're cooking sulfur to go on a C4 raid,\nyou will always need wood.\nKeep Up with Upkeep\nUpkeep is a somewhat new mechanic that the devs at Facepunch\nintroduced. In a simple way, it’s kind of like rent you have to pay, but\ninstead of cash, you pay with the resources your base if made out of, if you\nhave wood walls, floors, foundations or etc, you’re upkeep will be based off\nhow many you have, if you upgrade to stone, you will now be required to pay a\nstone upkeep. Farming up to pay your upkeep makes sure your base doesn’t decay\nand wither away and it’s always a good idea to have enough upkeep to last you\nuntil the next time you log on to keep your base at it’s best.\nSkins = Wins, Kinda?\nThis is a highly debated topic in a majority of games, but in Rust,\nskins actually have a use. In combat scenarios, it’s easier to identify who’s a\nfoe and who’s a friend or ally with skins. Skins are a nice way to support skin\ncreators and the devs back at Facepunch. If you would like to customize your\nbase or your loadout this is most likely a skin out there for your liking. But\ndon’t worry if you have concerns with this almost pay to win system, the devs\nare in the works on a team system that replaces the need of uniforms for the\nmost part.\nModded Experience\nThere are two main types of servers you will find on Rust in its\ncurrent state-- modded and vanilla. Vanilla servers can be found under official\nand community under the servers section and modded have their own section. Modded\nservers introduce more control to the admins of the server allowing them to\nchange features part of rust such as the gather rate, respawn locations and\netc. Modded servers can be a great place for a new player to start up their\nendeavors in Rust due to a majority of modded survival servers giving their\nplayers kits and higher gather rates allowing the player to learn the game\nmechanics with less hassle.\nUse Voice Chat\nVoice chat is one of the two ways to communicate in Rust, one being in\nthe chat and the other in voice. Unlike chat where your messages are\nbroadcasted to the whole server, voice chat is only to players in your\nproximity, this can be used to trade goods with other players, trade\ninformation, ask them to buddy up with you or discuss the crazed lunatic with\nthe AK-47 who killed you in your previous life for your rock and torch.\nTry Befriending Your Neighbors\nPicking your base location can be challenging, especially when you have\nto account for your closest threat or your closest ally-- your neighbor. When\nfirst starting Rust, the less threats to you the better, so if you can try\nmaking friends with your neighbors, the better for you, everyone in Rust is\nquite psychotic so maybe offering them resources they need to turn for\nprotection for when you’re first starting off may benefit you, just be careful\nfor how much they ask for and if you’re willing and able to make the cost. If\nyou’re lucky, you can persuade them for no cost if they’re friendly and\nunderstand the challenges it can be to be new to Rust. Just be wary, for\nbetrayal comes from the ones closest to us.\nRun!\nIn your beginning days of Rust, try not resorting to player vs player\nscenarios. When you hear gunshots in the near distance, you should run to your\nnearest safe location, whether this is in the opposite direction of the\ngunshots or into your base, you’re going to want to avoid combat. Don’t take\nthis wrong and play Rust completely avoiding combat your entire playthrough,\nbut for your beginner days you’re going to want to avoid combat until you have\na good sense of how the game works, then after, you’re going to want to engage\nin combat to better your skill. \nFarming Minigames\nWhen gathering wood from trees or stone, sulfur or metal from nodes, a\nminigame will appear. For trees a red “X” will appear on the tree after your\nfirst hit, after the “X” appears if you hit it, your gather rate increase\nslightly and you will begin gathering more and more each hit on an “X’ until\nyou reach the cap gather rate of the tool you’re using. This will help you farm\nfaster making farming quicking and reducing the time you’re left vulnerable to\nother players.\n \nHaving Multiple Sleeping Bags\nIf you can having multiple sleeping bags can come to a good use. If you\nhave two in your base and you happen to be raided and they don’t reach your\nsecond bag, you won’t have to venture back out to your base to salvage what’s\nleft, or if you die during the raid and they destroy your first bag, you can\nspawn on the second and try again to fend off the attackers. If you’re far from\nhome, it’s safe to place a sleeping back in the vicinity of the area you’re\naround just in case you die, when we all first started out that one wolf or\nbear that killed us and made us lose all our loot because we were to far away\nfrom base to get back in time before another player loots our dead body could\nbe avoided if we placed a bag closed to where we were. This bag would give us\nbetter control on where can spawn on the map. Also, if we’re to go out raiding\nor going out on a fight, having a bag near the battle or raid could grant us a\nfaster time of returning and possible fighting for a second time if out loot\nwasn’t taken or maybe you could get loot from a different body to return back\ninto the fight as fast as possible.\nAirlocks\nKnowing how to build a strong base is very important. To make sure for\nwhen you open door and you meet your demise to a shotgun having an airlock can\nbecome extremely useful. The airlock will prevent an intruder from getting\nstraight into your loot and causes raiders to go through more in order to get\nyour loot, costing a raider more resources and giving you more time. An airlock\nis as simple as having a triangle or square coming off the door of your base,\ncovering it with walls and loving one door way with a door. It acts as a buffer\nzone between the outside and the inside, just make sure you close your doors\nbehind you to make sure no one can get through your base for free, even with an\nairlock it’s dangerous to leave doors open.\nSafe and Secure Key Locks\nThere’s two types of locks in rocks a simple key lock and a code lock.\nA key lock requires a key to open so if someone else was to get access to the\nkey, they could open your door and take all your goodies, with a new update the\nperson who crafted the first key to the lock doesn’t need a key, so after\ncrafting a key lock and crafting a key, throwing away the key and letting it\ndespawn in your base will let you have a door that only you can access, but\nwith friends this can bring up an issue with getting in and out of the base, so\nif you’re planning of playing with friends we suggest getting to a code lock as\nfast as possible. Just remember to always make sure your locks are locked and\nnot unlocked. For code locks you have to cook metal and craft one with 100 metal\nfragments, after placing it on a door you can put in a four number pin, this\npin number shouldn’t be told to anyone accept people you’re going to base with.\nDo not right this down any where in Rust, access to this code to an\nuntrustworthy player can mean an end to your base.\nEat Up, Buttercup\nBefore venturing out, you’ll have to tend to your basic needs in Rust,\nhunger and thirst. Water is quite easy to access as long as you’re near a clean\nwater source that isn’t salt water, this will mostly be rivers or small bodies\nof shallow water that aren’t connected to the ocean. While we’re on the topic\nof rivers, they supply food from the crops that grow near the river naturally,\nyou’ll find pumpkins and corn in large quantity as long as no one else has\ntaken from the river, the food near the river will with no doubt supply you\nwith enough food to go a long while without having to harvest anymore. After\npicking a spawned crop we get a seed and for eating a crop we get more seeds,\nthese seeds can be used to grow more crops to keep a supply of food. Another\nway to find food is small baskets of food found near monuments in small\nmonuments such as the supermarket. Monuments are the marked places on your map\nyou can see by hitting the default key “G” and going to these monuments can\nhelp the player gain resources other than food. Another way to get food is by\ncrafting fishing traps, these traps are very simple and cost cloth and wood.\nAfter crafting the trap, we have to place it near a body of water. By putting\nany food besides canned food into the trap you have a chance to catch minnows\nor a trout. Trout can be cut apart and provide raw fish, bones and animal fat.\nMinnows on the other hand are smaller and grant less food than trouts but come\nin larger quantity than trout. Sadly, in the current state of Rust, minnows\ncan’t be used as bait to catch trout. Another way to get food is by hunting, on\nthe island of Rust, we can find bears, wolfs, horses and deers. All of these\ngrant a food correlating to the animal, hide or cloth, bones, low animal fat\nand only for the wolf, you can get a wolf skull to craft a wolf headdress. And\na more cruel and looked down upon way of getting food in Rust in cannibalism,\nif you are to kill a player you can chop them up for food, bones and animal\nfat. Cooking this food will allow you to eat a fellow player, but eating human\nmeat cost thirty hydration, so make sure if youre last choice is to eat human\nmeat, is you have water on the side to quench your thirst. Cooking these meats\nor putting them in fish traps can be used to feed the player and grant a small\namount of hydration. Another way to get water to by wells spawned around the\nmap, the wells supply water, but in turn cost a little of your calories or in\nsimpler way to understand takes a little bit out of your hunger to pump the\nwell. Stocking up on food and bottles of water is a good way to make sure you\ndon’t die to natural cause.\nUnderstanding Monuments\nMonuments are locations spawned around the map, they come in tiers 1-3.\nOne being the lowest tier and 3 being the highest. In lower tiers, you’ll\ncommon loot. In higher tier monuments you have a higher chances to find more\nrare and more sought after materials. When first spawning off, you’ll spawn\naround tier 1 monuments and depending where you go to on the map and where you\nend of basing will determine your access to the resources found in these\nmonuments. Each monument has a unique style to it and some have challenges that\ncome along, some have key card locks and fuses and some have challenging\nparkour to reach a reward.\nHide Your Base\nBuilding your base in an unpopular location may be useful for\nnewcomers-- avoiding populated areas full of combat is a safe way to build your\nbase and avoid being raided. Some nice spots to hide your base is in caves in\nthe designed plots, side of some cliffs, areas that are far from hotspots such\nas monuments, and other low profile areas. \nFind Your Spawn\nWhen spawning it, maybe you want to be in a different area, maybe the\nspawn you have seems to be filled with players, looted or is on the wrong side\nof the map you want to be on, by hitting “F1” you can open up the console-- by\ntyping kill, you character will die and you can try again to spawn somewhere\nelse. Just a heads up, though, there’s a cooldown of one minute on the command.\nBe Sneaky Beaky\nCrouching is a perfect way to add a layer of security to your roaming.\nYou don’t have footsteps for others to hear, and can get closer to animals and\nother players without them being aware!\nHigh External Protection\nHigh external walls are great to have on your person late-game! If\nyou’re getting shot at, all you have to do is pop up a wall between you and\nyour attacker! With wood high-externals costing only 300 wood, there is no\nreason that you shouldn’t have these with you if you are running with expensive\nguns and armor! \nBe Sure to Log Out Safely\nWhen logging out, make sure to log out in a safe area, inside your base\nis best, and no this doesn’t mean inside your front door, try sleeping in the\nmost secured area in your base to increase your chances of waking alive and\nuntouched. \nCome Prepared To Raid\nRaiding is a very expensive and challenging part of Rust, this comes in\nmany forms of raiding, whether you’re using a flamethrower to burnt through a\nwooden surface or wooden door, using satchels, C4, explosive 5.56 ammo or maybe\na rocket launcher to tell your target how you truly feel about them. Or maybe\nthey made a mistake building and you’re able to pickaxe one of their walls down\nor maybe they have one door and you are going to go deep into their loot room. \nMaking sure you have enough resources to get through with a raid to\nimportant, make sure to have enough ammo, medical supplies, strong enough armor\nand good guns. Having these doesn’t guarantee a raid, it’s the skill behind\nthese that make it successful or not, so with practice you can up your chances.\nBe aware and don’t get tunneled vision, players around the map will\nhear the raid if you’re using satchels, C4 or rockets and if you’re using\nexplosive 5.56, try you best to have a suppressor on. And just because you’re\nraiding using a quite technique doesn’t mean you’re safe, roaming players or\nallies of the your target could come and ruin the raid and the people inside\nthe base, if online, can be another hassle to get over.4\nRadiation Treatment\nWhen going through some monuments, you’ll encounter radiation, this can\ncome in low doses based on your position of if you go to deep, you can be given\ndeadly doses of radiation. Now, how de we prevent this radiation? By wearing\nclothing we up our radiation protection, this allows us to go deeper to get\nloot in some monuments with high raditions. Or we can get a radiation suit out\nof a crate randomly or off a player, which gives the best protection against\nradiation and only has an issue in some spots in tier 3 monuments. If we have\nrads and want to remove them instantly, we can radiation pills which will\nremove a decent amount of radiation we have built up for the cost of some of\nour hydration.\nZig-Zag\nDodging and weaving are the best ways to avoid being hit by bullets,\neaten by wolves, killed by bears,or being smacked by players with spears.\nRunning randomly is a great way to keep yourself as safe as possible in the\nwild wild world of rust\nWaterpipe OP\nThe waterpipe, which is a simple, easy to make and use shotgun, is\neasily one of the most frustrating ways to die, but one of the best ways to get\ntools off of other players. Hiding around a corner with a waterpipe is a sneaky\nway to get loot, and quick! OEarly Morning Trappin\nLooking to get an edge up on your competition and don’t mind waking up\nearly? Try getting up early to get online when the server population is at its\nlowest! Generally, 6 a.m seems to be the sweet spot. Without other players\naround, you are free to roam, farm, or go for airdrops with limited\ninterference!\n \nLock Your Tool Cupboard\nLocking your tool cupboard is very strong way to secure your base, it\nwill cost your raiders more resources to get control to building access to your\nbase, and if they don’t have enough to break it, locking it can possible keep\nthe materials in your base safe and giving you building permissions to rebuild\nyour base. This is important early game if someone is to get deep into your\nbase so they can’t take it over or greif your base. \n \nLadders Are Important Raid and\nBuild Tools\nYou can get into and out of tight spots with a ladder! Ladders are an\neasy way to make a raid safer, easier, and more efficient, or climb up to a\nloft in your base!\n \nSafe Houses\nIf you have resources to spare, placing small bases, equipped with\nsleeping bags and tools, are a great way to stop you from losing everything in\none raid, as well as keep yourself safer when out roaming. Small one-by-one\nbases, especially those with airlocks, are great for this. se9. \nPick Up Resources When Running\nAround \nEach small stone, tree stump, or hemp plant can add up. If you are out\nfarming, roaming, or even raiding, make it a habit to pick up these small\nresources, as they can be extremely helpful later on (and also in the early\ngame!)\nKeep Kits on Hand\nIn the event of a raid, lost gunfight, or death by radiation, bears, or\nwolves, you’ll want to be able to head back out there to retrieve any lost\nitems. By keeping a spare set of clothes, armour, and a gun or two somewhere\nsafe in your base, you can reduce the amount of time you have to spend grinding\nbetween each death!\nRead More Rust Tips and Tricks Here: http://www.gamersdecide.com/articles/rust-guide-top-50-tips-and-tricks"}
