
# Rust Wiki

{'title': 'Rust Wiki', 'content': "Welcome to the Rust Wiki!Rust is a survival game created by Facepunch Studios. Inspired by games like Minecraft, and other wilderness survival games. – Rust aims to create a hostile environment in which emergent gameplay can flourish.\nWeaponsItemsBuildingEnvironmentMechanicsGuides\nAbout\nRust is a multiplayer game, so there will be other players trying to survive in the same way that you are. Unfortunately for you they can find you, kill you and take your stuff. Fortunately for you – you can kill them and take their stuff. Or maybe you can make friends and help each other survive. Rust’s world is harsh – so you might need to make friends to survive.\nNew to Rust? Read the user submitted Guides.\nHelp out the wikia! Extend some stub pages or add some images to pages that need them! Or help us with some tasks on the todo list. Also check out our wiki chat forums.\nMain Categories\nWeapons\nItems\nGuides\nFood & Hunger \nEnvironment\nStatus Effects\nChangelog\nIssues/Bugs\nUnlike other Rust wikis, we have accurate information on BOTH Legacy and Experimental versions of Rust!\nVideos\nRust Beginner's Guide - How To Get Explosives Fast in Rust 2019Rust Beginner's Guide - The Scrap Transport HelicopterRust - The Ultimate Guide to RaidingRust Beginner's Guide - How to get Scrap fast in Rust 2019\nDevelopment News\nCOMMUNITY UPDATE 254 - - 2023/07/27 15:57\nRUSTOPIA INVITATIONALJuly 29th-30thRustopia Invitational Tournament is this weekend and they boosting up the Project Hope charity! Project Hope i...\nCOMMUNITY UPDATE 253 - - 2023/06/30 15:56\nRUST IS ON SALE!From now until July 13th Rust and other Facepunch titles are on sale!Just in time for our new Abyss content being released on the 6th. wink winkSave up to 50% off o...\nBAGS TO BATTLES - - 2023/06/01 17:51\nSLEEPING BAG LIMITSThis month we’ve decided to limit the maximum number of respawn options to 15 per player. This is a big change and not one we make lightly, so we thought it woul...\nCOMMUNITY UPDATE 252 - - 2023/05/27 13:47\nCREATOR PROGRAMEarlier this week we launched our Facepunch Creator Program in efforts to collab with our creators more.This program is a work in progress and mostly lives in a spec...\nTwitch Rivals Rust III Event - - 2023/05/16 18:00\nTwitch Rivals Rust IIIMay 16th-20th Twitch Drops 8 Teams 160 Creators 100k Prize Pool Custom Map In-Game ChallengesLast Team Standing wins!Tune into the event, live on Twitc...\nIf you see this, your JavaScript might be disabled or DiscordIntegrator plugin isn't working. If the latter, please contact a wiki administrator.\nGallery\n1/5\nTranslations\n¿Hablas español? Entra a la wiki de Rust en español.\nВы разговариваете по-русски? Тогда посетите русскую вики.\nVous parlez français ? Allez visiter le wiki de Rust en français.\nVous parlez français ? Allez visiter le wiki de Rust Experimental en français.\nOfficial Pages\nRust Website\nRust Facebook Page\nRust Twitter Page\nRust Updates Twitter\nRust on Facepunch Forums\nRust on Steam Community Forums\nUseful Pages\nRust Reddit\nRustafied\nOxideMod\nPlay Rust HQ\nRust:IO"}
